The Palestinian Authority
is lashing out
at Benjamin
Netanyahu's proposal for Gaza's
postwar future,
calling it a plan
for the reoccupation of Gaza.
This after the Israeli prime minister
unveiled a day after plan
to members of the security cabinet
Thursday night.
It includes the complete
demilitarization of the enclave
Closing off
Gaza's southern border with Egypt,
as well as the overhaul of Gaza's
civil administration
and education systems.
It comes as Israel joins talks in Paris
aimed at a ceasefire
in its war with Hamas
to the potential
release of hostages as well.
There's a growing sense of urgency
to find an agreement here.
After Israel
threatened to expand its assault
in Gaza's
southernmost city, Rafah,
if hostages are not released
by the start of Ramadan
in about two weeks from now.
CNN's Nic Robertson is in Tel Aviv
for us with the latest.
So let's just talk about this plan.
Nic, demilitarization of Gaza,
indefinite military control
by the Israelis.
Also, Israel
would have basic control
of all sort of access points
to Gaza as well.
Just give us more detail
in terms
of what is in this plan
and how the US will likely respond
to certain parts of this
Yeah, we've actually already heard
from Secretary of State
Antony Blinken,
referring to a couple of parts of it.
He said he'd just seen reports about it
and had yet to get into the detail of it.
One of the things that stands out in this
proposal by Prime Minister Netanyahu is
the full control of Gaza,
all the borders,
which means taking control
of the southern border
along
what is now
the border between Gaza and Egypt.
And he says that is to stop
any smuggling
underground using tunnels or overground.
That would be a significant change
and could well be contested
and of course, that thing alone.
And there are other issues as well.
But that just that one point alone
brings into question
the idea of Palestinian statehood
if it can't control its borders.
But, of course,
another point
that Prime Minister
Netanyahu
put in his plan
is that there will be no independent
Israel will certainly not recognize
any independent recognition
of a Palestinian state.
And that's a message
to the United States.
One of the other points,
and this is one of the points that
Secretary Blinken picked up upon
is that in the plan, there is
there will be, according
to Prime Minister Netanyahu,
a border area inside Gaza giving security
for Israel outside of Gaza
for as long as is deemed necessary.
And that is something
that the United States
had previously opposed specifically.
So that
also seems to sort of fly in the face of
of what Israel's allies are saying.
Another point that's raised as well
is Israel
passing over
or giving some sort of civilian control
to unnamed,
unspecified civilian bodies or persons.
But also it talks about de radicalizing
inside schools, inside
and welfare institutions.
Again, that that does not really sound
like an independent Palestinian state,
in fact.
This is, I think, the point that that
the Palestinian Authority are making,
that this is really
a reoccupation by by Israel,
although Israel is saying
it will completely
it will completely demilitarize
the whole area.
But it clearly wants to be able to have
the operational ability
inside the freedom
of operational movement
for for security measures.
So this is what the Palestinian Authority
is talking about.
So this is,
it appears,
a very maximalist plan
that's been put forward
by the prime minister.
This is not set in stone.
It's something that will be discussed.
But I think it indicates
even to allies like the United States
that Israel's position is on on
Gaza is really as strong
and as hard as it has ever been.
Yeah.
I mean, a lot of people
will look at this plan
and see as a reoccupation of Gaza
or at the very least preventing
any kind of Palestinian sovereignty,
at least in the short term.
What sort of regional reaction
are we getting
so far?
We've yet to
hear from some of the regional partners,
in particular Qatar, that is,
that is the interlocutor at the moment
between Israel and Hamas
to get the hostages released.
And the language that's been put forward,
although it doesn't specify
Qatar by name,
but the language seems to imply that
Qatar would not be part of the plan
going forward for having an involvement
as it has had until now,
helping essentially helping
finance through Israel
in the United States.
The authorities inside inside Gaza,
that would appear to be ruled out.
Israel is saying that the
the Arab partners that it would have
to help administer and finance
what happens inside
Gaza would be of its choosing.
And the indication is that Qatar
not named but would not be one of them.
So how they'll respond is unclear.
Obviously, the plan
to control
the southern border is going to
affect Egypt.
We haven't heard them yet
reply specifically to this,
but it will have potentially
territorial implications for them
in other implications as well.
And we know that right now
the Egyptians are building a buffer zone,
an additional security zone
along that southern border,
potentially in preparation
for for those Palestinians
who are stuck in Rafah,
if they try to get over the fence
and escape out of Gaza,
if there's an Israeli ground incursion.
But this could also be
potentially because Israel is
going to it's going
to take control of that of that border.
Right.
Nic Robertson
live for us that thank you so much.
Israel is rejecting
disturbing allegations reported by UN
experts of its forces killing,
imprisoning and raping
Palestinian women and girls,
saying
the allegations are motivated
by hatred for Israel.
Earlier this week, UN experts
said they were distressed
by reports of multiple
forms of sexual assault
against Palestinian women
and girls in detention,
including being stripped naked
and searched by male Israeli
army officers.
As U.N.
experts are calling
for an independent investigation.
And the unique toll on women
in this conflict cannot be ignored.
Statistics from the UN show
that around
70% of those killed in Gaza
are estimated to be women and children
and that two mothers are killed
every hour.
Earlier, my colleague Becky
Anderson spoke to the UN
Special Rapporteur on violence
against Women and Girls
about these allegations.
Reem al-Salam said that
some of these allegations are not new.
I want you to listen to what was said.
We must remember that
these reports of sexual violence,
especially, I would say,
committed against
Palestinian women,
is one of many egregious human
rights and humanitarian law violations
that Palestinian women
are being subjected to,
including an unfolding genocide
occupation for decades,
arbitrary killing, forced starvation,
the use of reproductive violence
in particular
as a tool of war against them.
And I would say that
these allegations that we've heard
also are not new.
They've been pointed out
by human rights
organizations on the ground.
My colleague, the special rapporteur
on the occupied territories.
And our last report also pointed out
that there have been longstanding reports
of Ill-Treatment
and torture
that Palestinian women
and sexual assault
that they have faced
in Israeli detention.
So we are not talking about something
that has just emerged after October 7th.
UN Special
Rapporteur on
Violence Against Women and girls, Reem
Musallam, speaking to CNN earlier.